README.md, before:

# GitBuddy

[![Rust CI](https://github.com/fujianbang/GitBuddy/actions/workflows/rust.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fujianbang/GitBuddy/actions/workflows/rust.yaml)

GitBuddy is an AI-driven tool designed to simplify your Git commit process. With GitBuddy, you can generate meaningful
commit messages, streamline your workflow, and enhance your productivity.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is currently in **development**.

## Features

- **AI-Powered Commit Messages**: Generate intelligent and context-aware commit messages based on your code changes.
- **Conventional Commits Support**: Automatically formats commit messages following the Conventional Commits specification.
- **Multiple Commit Options**: Provides 3-5 commit message suggestions for you to choose from.
- **Beautiful CLI Interface**:
    - Multiple separator themes for a personalized experience
    - Colorful output with emojis
    - Enhanced statistics and configuration display
- **Customizable Models**: Support for using different AI models, not only GPT-3.5.
- **Multiple Vendor Flexibility**: Compatible with various AI service providers.
- **Proxy Support**: Easily configure proxy settings for network-restricted environments.
- **Customizable Prompts**: Tailor the AI's suggestions to fit your project's specific needs.
- **Seamless Integration**: Works seamlessly with your existing Git workflow.
- **Improved Productivity**: Spend less time thinking about commit messages and more time coding.

## Installation

To get started with GitBuddy, follow these simple steps:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/huimingz/GitBuddy.git
```

### Configuration

To use GitBuddy, simply run the following command in your terminal:

**Using default model**

```sh
gitbuddy config --api-key <your-api-key> deepseek
```

**Using custom model**

```sh
gitbuddy config --api-key <your-api-key> --model gpt-4 openai
```

## Usage

Using GitBuddy is straightforward. After making your changes, run the following command to generate a commit message:

```sh
gitbuddy ai
```

### Commit Message Format

GitBuddy follows the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification, generating commit messages in this format:

```
<type>(<optional scope>): <subject>

<optional body>

<optional footer>
```

Where `type` can be:

- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- docs: Documentation changes
- style: Code style changes (formatting, etc)
- refactor: Code refactoring
- perf: Performance improvements
- test: Adding or updating tests
- chore: Maintenance tasks

## Support models

| Vendor      | Model(s)                        | Support |
|-------------|---------------------------------|:-------:|
| DeepSeek    | deepseek-chat                   |   yes   |
| OpenAI      | gpt-3.5-turbo                   |   no    |
| ByteDance   | Doubao-lite-4k<br>Doubao-pro-4k |   no    |
| Baidu       | ERNIE 4.0                       |   no    |
| Alibaba     | qwen-turbo                      |   no    |
| Moonshot AI | moonshot-v1-8k                  |   no    |

## Roadmap

- [x] Enhance the User Interface
    - [x] Add multiple separator themes
    - [x] Implement colorful output with emojis
    - [x] Improve statistics and configuration display
- [x] Using configuration file instead of environment variables
- [x] Implement Conventional Commits support
- [x] Add multiple commit message suggestions
- [ ] Support for more AI models
- [ ] Add statistics and analytics for GitBuddy usage of kinds of Models
- [ ] Support http proxy
- [ ] Custom prompts
- [ ] **Install** for using GitBuddy by **Git Hooks** (without `gitbuddy ai`)

Commit message:

docs(README.md): update gitbuddy installation instructions
clarify configuration options and update README with new config file example add
clear instructions for using default model, custom models, and configuring via
configuration file

README.md, after:

# GitBuddy

[![Rust CI](https://github.com/fujianbang/GitBuddy/actions/workflows/rust.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fujianbang/GitBuddy/actions/workflows/rust.yaml)

GitBuddy is an AI-driven tool designed to simplify your Git commit process. With GitBuddy, you can generate meaningful
commit messages, streamline your workflow, and enhance your productivity.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is currently in **development**.

## Features

- **AI-Powered Commit Messages**: Generate intelligent and context-aware commit messages based on your code changes.
- **Conventional Commits Support**: Automatically formats commit messages following the Conventional Commits specification.
- **Multiple Commit Options**: Provides 3-5 commit message suggestions for you to choose from.
- **Beautiful CLI Interface**:
    - Multiple separator themes for a personalized experience
    - Colorful output with emojis
    - Enhanced statistics and configuration display
- **Customizable Models**: Support for using different AI models, not only GPT-3.5.
- **Multiple Vendor Flexibility**: Compatible with various AI service providers.
- **Proxy Support**: Easily configure proxy settings for network-restricted environments.
- **Customizable Prompts**: Tailor the AI's suggestions to fit your project's specific needs.
- **Seamless Integration**: Works seamlessly with your existing Git workflow.
- **Improved Productivity**: Spend less time thinking about commit messages and more time coding.

## Installation

To get started with GitBuddy, follow these simple steps:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/huimingz/GitBuddy.git
```

### Configuration

GitBuddy supports two ways to configure:

1. Using command line:

```sh
# Using default model
gitbuddy config --api-key <your-api-key> deepseek

# Using custom model
gitbuddy config --api-key <your-api-key> --model gpt-4 openai
```

2. Using configuration file:

GitBuddy will automatically look for a configuration file at `~/.config/gitbuddy/config.toml`. You can create this file manually or copy from the example configuration:

```sh
# Create config directory
mkdir -p ~/.config/gitbuddy

# Copy example config
cp config.example.toml ~/.config/gitbuddy/config.toml

# Edit the config file with your preferred editor
vim ~/.config/gitbuddy/config.toml
```

The configuration file allows you to:
- Set default AI service provider
- Configure multiple AI providers
- Customize model parameters
- Set API endpoints and timeouts

See `config.example.toml` in the repository for a complete example with detailed comments.

## Usage

Using GitBuddy is straightforward. After making your changes, run the following command to generate a commit message:

```sh
gitbuddy ai
```

### Commit Message Format

GitBuddy follows the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification, generating commit messages in this format:

```
<type>(<optional scope>): <subject>

<optional body>

<optional footer>
```

Where `type` can be:

- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- docs: Documentation changes
- style: Code style changes (formatting, etc)
- refactor: Code refactoring
- perf: Performance improvements
- test: Adding or updating tests
- chore: Maintenance tasks

## Support models

| Vendor      | Model(s)                        | Support |
|-------------|---------------------------------|:-------:|
| DeepSeek    | deepseek-chat                   |   yes   |
| OpenAI      | gpt-3.5-turbo                   |   no    |
| ByteDance   | Doubao-lite-4k<br>Doubao-pro-4k |   no    |
| Baidu       | ERNIE 4.0                       |   no    |
| Alibaba     | qwen-turbo                      |   no    |
| Moonshot AI | moonshot-v1-8k                  |   no    |

## Roadmap

- [x] Enhance the User Interface
    - [x] Add multiple separator themes
    - [x] Implement colorful output with emojis
    - [x] Improve statistics and configuration display
- [x] Using configuration file instead of environment variables
- [x] Implement Conventional Commits support
- [x] Add multiple commit message suggestions
- [ ] Support for more AI models
- [ ] Add statistics and analytics for GitBuddy usage of kinds of Models
- [ ] Support http proxy
- [ ] Custom prompts
- [ ] **Install** for using GitBuddy by **Git Hooks** (without `gitbuddy ai`)
